# FlowerMap
A spigot plugin that displays a textual map of bonemeal flower generation in flower forests

The flowers generated by using bonemeal on grass block in Minecraft are normally random. A particular block might produce several different types of flowers depending on its biome. But the flower forest biome is special. Not only does it generate two flowers you can't get anywhere else, Lily of the Valley and Allium, but it also has a set pattern of flowers that grow from bonemeal. This pattern is NOT determined by the world seed! It is the same for every world, and it depends only on the X / Z coordinate of the block. For example, if the the block at -1718, -694 in your world happens to be a flower forest, the flower generated on that block will always be a Lily of the Valley. Or couse you always have a random chance to get grass, or even nothing, but if the RNG lands on "flower" it will always be that particular one everytime.

This is described on the Minecraft wiki under Flower Gradients. A sample pattern is given, but due to the complexity of the algorithm there is no information given on how to determine which block will generate which flower. I couldn't find any information online, so I dug into the source and found the algorithm and determined how it worked. Using that knowledge I wrote this plugin.

# Who cares?
Someone making a flower farm! A flower forest is capable of producing every single height flower, with the exception of the Wither Rose and the Blue Orchid. Rather than rely on randomness, you can find an area that will always generate exactly the type of flower you want! Without this plugin, your only other option is to bonemeal the entire area, punch out the grass manually, and continue until all the tiles are flowers. I tried that. It wasn't fun.

It's very easy to adapt this code into any type of utility you want. The code that determines the actual flower generation at a particular X / Z doesn't have any dependencies outside the standard Java libraries.
